---
layout: post
title: "Informational Freedom"
date: 2017-05-17
published: false
---

On January 17, 2017, Barrack Obama
granted [209 commutations](https://www.justice.gov/pardon/obama-commutations).
That is he shortened the sentences of 209 alleged criminals, including Chelsea
Manning. Probably not many people will recognize that name. It was speculated
that Barrack Obama was going to pardon Edward Snowden, and surely if I had
brought up his name instead, then many more people would recognize it. For the
purpose of what I'm going to say, both names are of equal importance. Their
relation is to that of whistle-blowing, or public dissemination of information
otherwise held private (particularly by the government), wherein the information
gives evidence of corruption, illegality, unethical behavior, unwarranted
surveillance, or an innumerable amount of wrong-doings.

As many should
know, [Edward Snowden](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Edward_Snowden) is a
whistle-blower. To Americans, that apparently makes him a contradictory list of
things. He is seen by some as a hero, or a patriot, or perhaps a guardian. He is
somebody who helped make us aware of some of the unethical behaviors that the
American government takes part in. In the years following his whistle-blowing,
having this information has come to make Americans stronger together and more in
union as a nation. It did not take any time at all for us to acquiesce the
vocabulary given to us by Edward Snowden and the media following Snowden's
controversy. That is to say that nary an ear has gone without hearing about
either the NSA or WikiLeaks within the last decade. However, controversially, we
Americans do not all look equivalently upon this. Some of us, as if by
contradiction would give the name traitor to Edward Snowden, or to any other
whistle-blowers.

I am here now to say that whistle-blowing is important to us, and it is a
necessary benefit that we should not look down upon. Certainly it is true that
what these whistle-blowers are doing or what they did is or was illegal, but
this is only to protect those who need important information closed off from the
general public. People giving anonymous tips about illegal behavior are kept
anonymous for a reason; sometimes things are kept secret for some time to
prevent hysteria; we should all understand how sometimes things are blown out of
proportion; _etc_. However, it is that society has been able to propel itself
forward within the last century by adhering to notions of civil liberties and
equal rights. Through history we have come to find ourselves in opposition to
such things as singular access to education, wealth, property, bus seats,
commerce, _etc._; and it is here that I propose we should be more strongly
_against_ secrecy of governmental information, particularly when it relates to
protections we should be afforded as a nation.

One of the people granted commutation by the old president
was [Chelsea Manning](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Chelsea_Manning), who was a
soldier when she leaked Army intelligence information online, and as such was
detained for espionage. However, what she leaked is widely seen as a catalyst
for the
[Arab Spring](http://www.worldaffairsjournal.org/article/wikihistory-did-leaks-inspire-arab-spring)---an
important narrative against oppressive authoritarianism in the modern world,
something to unite people against fascism and oppression, something as simple as
the sharing of information online. In fact it is simple to transfer information,
as such a thing can only exist in two different fashions. That is, either the
information is transferred, or nothing is transferred. In the days of monarchies
and oligarchies, in the days where humans were believed to be of hierarchical
worth depending upon their familial status, it was that only those who were born
noble or rich could afford information. A commoner had to spend his life's worth
on food and clothing and taxes, whereas those who lived in the castle could
afford all of the books and education his heart desired without having to worry
if he was going to be able to eat the next day.

Today Chelsea Manning is scheduled to be released, or maybe has already been
released. Though it is not without heartache, and it is not without having been
so scared to death to have felt the need to attempt suicide, to go on a hunger
strike, or to be a proponent to informational freedom all while being bullied,
alienated, and segregated by the very government meant to be the protector of
its citizens. But it is not just Chelsea Manning. As I have said, Edward Snowden
feels persecuted by the American government. An intelligent man once working
hand in hand with his administration but since betrayed, now turned information
activist. There is also Aaron Schwartz, once a research fellow at Harvard
University, once a contributor to online content standardization, once a
propagator of information to the masses, once a great man, programmer, activist,
icon, _etc_.

On January 6, 2011, Aaron Schwartz was arrested by MIT police on
breaking-and-entering charges and wire fraud, because he systematically
delivered academic journal articles from JSTOR to the Internet. Upon returning
the materials stolen to JSTOR, [JSTOR commented](http://docs.jstor.org/):

> "We told the United States Attorney’s Office that we had no further interest
> in the matter and did not want to press charges. Subsequently a criminal case
> was brought against Mr. Swartz by the United States Attorney’s Office, and he
> was indicted on felony charges in July 2011."

At the time, JSTOR had no idea how law enforcement came to be involved in the
matter, and they would have settled on the files simply remaining undistributed.
However his actions, according the federal government, carried a cumulative
maximum penalty of \$1 million in fines, 35 years in prison, asset forfeiture,
restitution, and supervised release. While under federal indictment for his
alleged computer crimes, he was found to have hanged himself in his apartment.
He was bullied by the American government deciding to make an example out of him
even after the victim of the crime decidedly did not feel victimized.

In any case. It is my point to implore you all to be more aware of goings-on
such as these. Take some time to read up on the various news outlets' opinions
on the release of Chelsea Manning. Turn off adblock so they can get something
worthy out of the page views they are trying for, at least on the premise that
they are disseminating information worthy of being informed about.
