---
layout: post
title: "Grammatical"
tags: Rational Sentences
date: 2017-06-05
published: false
---

We wish to construct the statement

> colorless green ideas sleep furiously.

Upon first glance, it would seem that the statement is nonsensical. The
statement was formulated to demonstrate a generative grammar producing a
category mistake. The following is a derivation of the sentence in such a way
hoping to give proper semantic meaning to the statement, signifying the
statement as grammatically and semantically correct.

Firstly consider the statement in two separations, the first a noun phrase
consisting of _colorless green ideas_, the second _sleep furiously_. We will
start with the second part, then move on to the first part, in the end
reassembling the two separations.

What does it mean to sleep furiously? To do anything furiously means one of two
things according to the definition of furiously.

> __fu·ri·ous·ly__ /ˈfyo͞orēəslē/ _adverb_

> > In an extremely angry manner.

> > In an extremely energetic or hurried manner; intensely.

Either the thing is done in an extremely angry manner, or the thing is done
extremely hurriedly or intensely such that it will have appeared to be done with
an unnaturally large amount of energy. By either definition, meaning can be
given to the verb phrase _to sleep furiously_. 

In consideration of the first definition, let there exist a child furious over
the rules set by his parents about going to bed at some hour. In this case,
imagine that the child is in the middle of doing something he believes to be
very important, where all of a sudden the clock displays a certain time so that
his parents interrupt his progress and tell him he needs to go to bed. The child
wants nothing else but to finish the work he's started. He begins to see his
motivation crumbling before his eyes. How could he possibly ever find again the
determination he's set himself to for finishing this project? Tears begin to
well up in his eyes. He begins to become emotional over it. He cannot stand that
his own parents would make him feel this way when it should have been obvious to
them how passionate he had become over the project. Now he must angrily retreat
to his room, where for many moments he will lie awake before drifting to sleep
furiously.

In consideration of the second definition of the word furiously, let the same
furious child exist as before under the same conditions, this time with the
additional consideration that the child is working _in his room_ on the project.
Before being told that he will need to go to bed, the child decides to try
outsmarting his parents. He hatches a plan to pretend to already be fast asleep
when his parents enter the room. As he hears his parents make there way almost
to the barrier of his domain, he energetically traverses the terrain of his
quarters attempting to thwart the enemy of his parents. In a hurried manner he
throws the covers of his bed over the top of his body and intensely pretends to
lie unconscious as his parents open the door. Upon entering, they witness
nothing but the body of their child secretly sleeping furiously.

