---
layout: post
title: "Words that everybody probably knows"
tags: Words
date: 2017-05-27
published: true
---

So I have a tendency to think a lot about language. I'm not sure why. In
learning programming languages I've always tended to relate the syntax to that
of the English that I know, and think usually that the most well-written code is
the kind which reads most closely to natural language (making this relation
contradictory somewhat to the typical definition of code, [but I found recently
that Richard Davey thinks this as
well](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=MZxzuHY97ug)). Unfortunately, it seems
this kind of syntactical and lexical interest doesn't make me the most
interesting conversational partner. I can quote my roommates as telling me that
they "don't want to have 'semantic' arguments" with me, though truthfully I only
wished to denote better the thoughts they were having.

Recently I had a conversation with a friend and I brought up the word
"ubiquity." It's not the most common word to say and she seemed a little
confused by it. I'm sure she had acquaintance with the word, but could have
probably picked out the meaning of it in context. In response to the look she
game me, I told her that it means about the same thing as the word _commonplace_
(which is pretty close). Google's definition of the word is this:

> __u·biq·ui·ty__ /yo͞oˈbikwədē/ _noun_

> > The fact of appearing everywhere or of being very common.

She then asked me why I didn't just use the word "commonplace" instead. I made
the remark that this replacement word for ubiquity is in fact actually two
separate words conjoined together! Who would want to use a silly conjunction in
place of an established word that has the same definition. This is probably not
a good argument, though there are so many different contexts that it all really
depends anyways, right? I think if some really good point ends in utilizing a
word as unique and precise as the word ubiquity, then it must be better to end
with that, something concise and functional, instead of some hideous
amalgamation of two common words placed together. In any case, here's what I
think of the word. (Beforehand I must admit that I'm a little inspired
by
[this blog](http://www.grammarphobia.com/blog/2015/07/ubiquitousness-ubiquity.html).)

Ubiquity
--------

Firstly, I believe it to have a negative connotation. Truthfully, I can only
support this fact by the rationale that I can't think of a way to use it in a
good light. (Which is perhaps ironic.) In a conversation I had recently about
the `gif` file formats, I said something along the lines of:

> If the only good thing about something is its ubiquity, then it's probably not
> a good thing.

It was in relation to the fact that `gif` files can be large compared to other
graphics formats. It's nice that Tinder and Facebook chat messengers have their
silly applets which allows people to share `gifs` in a native format, but it's
common to come across some in a web browser that aren't optimized, even though
it's
[easy to do with free software](http://adaptivesamples.com/2015/08/06/making-an-optimized-gif-in-gimp/).
Alas, not all good things are ubiquitous, and not all ubiquitous things are
good.

Truth
-----

In the same conversation I brought up the difference between two pairs of
contrasting words. I list them as follows, and I hope it to be clear how they're
not exactly how I believe one likes them to be.

- __true and false__

> > __true__ /tro͞o/ _adjective_

> > > In accordance with fact or reality.

> > __false__ /fôls/ _adjective_

> > > Not according with truth or fact; incorrect.

<br>

- __truth and falsehood__

> > __truth__ /tro͞oTH/ _noun_

> > > The quality or state of being true.

> > __false·hood__ /ˈfôlsˌho͝od/ _noun_

> > > The state of being untrue.

<br>

Again she made fun of me for having such a problem with the words. The first
pair, true and false, are adjectives. I said that it's convenient when something
isn't true, because then it must be that it's false. For the second pair,
however, before I could fully explain how it is that something is strange when
it isn't the truth, she cut me off to say it's not strange, it's just false.
This perhaps verifies the point that I was trying make; that it doesn't really
make sense to call something a falsehood when that something isn't the truth of
the matter, but the question surrounding that idea [isn't so
easy](https://mitpress.mit.edu/sites/default/files/titles/content/9780262621458_sch_0001.pdf)
to explain in a simply blog post.

The things which we're acquainted with couldn't possibly be false. If that was
true, then there would be no certain way to know anything about the world. If we
believe that humans have morals and we see people acting in accordance with that
moral way, then it makes sense to say that humans act morally appropriately.
Some might argue morals are only a set of beliefs. But if we make the assertion
that the proclamations of morals are falsehoods, then it doesn't do us any good
because humans still act seemingly appropriately; we just can't make any
reference as to _why_ they act in that manner, which doesn't do anybody any
good.

An Idiom
--------

A different time, happening further back, I constructed a topic about an idiom
that shared that I discussed with my friends for a while. As per the last terms,
I shall give a definition:

> __id·i·om__ /ˈidēəm/ _noun_

> > A group of words established by usage as having a meaning not deducible from
> those of the individual words.

The particular idiom I had in mind was

> rose-colored glasses

which is interesting to me. Usually when somebody has on their _rose-colored
glasses_, it is that they're optimistic. I think in most cases it happens that
they're acting optimistic in spite of something. Here I want to note that there
is a contrary to optimistic; that is, the contrary is pessimistic. This is to
say that one who is not optimistic is pessimistic and one who is not pessimistic
must be optimistic. There is a dualism by which these words have meaning.

To say the same of the idiom _rose-colored glasses_ doesn't exactly make sense.
What is the opposite of someone who wears glasses other than somebody who simply
doesn't wear glasses? If a person with rose-colored glasses doesn't wear them
then it must be that they are an ordinary person, which contradicts the relation
between rose-colored glasses and optimism when the contrary of optimism
pessimism. The definition of the idiom must be self-standing. It is independent
not only of the meaning of the words that compose it, but also the words in the
same realm of description as the idiom.

Though there is a second relevant definition in reference to programming I also
think is important. It is this:

> __id·i·om__ /ˈidēəm/ _noun_ (programming)

> > A programming construct or phraseology generally held to be the most
> efficient or elegant means to achieve a particular result or behavior.

Regarding the previous discussion, it makes sense to say that _rose-colored
glasses_ represents an efficient or elegant solution to detailing the
description of someone who is optimistic in spite of something. To utilize the
idiom is to make the point requested by the context without needing to
disestablish the ordinary duality of optimism and pessimism.

A programming idiom is something commonly used by all speakers of the languages.
Clearly this definition is not limited only to programming. Clearly it is that
the idiom described here is specific itself and there is no easier set of words
capable of describing the experience that one might acquainted themselves with.
