---
layout: post
title: "Words"
date: 2017-06-01
published: false
---

So I have a tendency to think a lot about language. I'm not sure why. In
learning programming languages I've always tended to relate the syntax to that
of the English that I know, and think usually that the most well-written code is
the kind which reads most closely to natural language (making this relation
contradictory somewhat to the typical definition of
code,
[but I found recently that Richard Davey thinks this as well](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=MZxzuHY97ug)).
Unfortunately, it seems this kind of syntactical and lexical interest doesn't
make me the most interesting conversational partner. I can quote my roommates as
telling me that they "don't want to have 'semantic' arguments" with me, though
truthfully I only wished to denote better the thoughts they were having.

Recently I had a conversation with a friend and I brought up the word
"ubiquity." It's not the most common word to say and she seemed a little
confused by it. I'm sure she had acquaintance with the word, but could have
probably picked out the meaning of it in context. In response to the look she
game me, I told her that it means about the same thing as the word _commonplace_
(which is pretty close). Google's definition of the word is this:

> __u·biq·ui·ty__ /yo͞oˈbikwədē/ _noun_

> > The fact of appearing everywhere or of being very common.

She then asked me why I didn't just use the word "commonplace" instead. I made
the remark that this replacement word for ubiquity is in fact actually two
separate words conjoined together! Who would want to use a silly conjunction in
place of an established word that has the same definition. This is probably not
a good argument, though there are so many different contexts that it all really
depends anyways, right? I think if some really good point ends in utilizing a
word as unique and precise as the word ubiquity, then it must be better to end
with that, something concise and functional, instead of some hideous
amalgamation of two common words placed together. In any case, here's what I
think of the word. (Beforehand I must admit that I'm a little inspired
by
[this blog](http://www.grammarphobia.com/blog/2015/07/ubiquitousness-ubiquity.html).)

## Ubiquity

Firstly, I believe it to have a negative connotation. Truthfully, I can only
support this fact by the rationale that I can't think of a way to use it in a
good light. (Which is perhaps ironic.) In a conversation I had recently about
the `gif` file formats, I said something along the lines of:

> If the only good thing about something is its ubiquity, then it's probably not
> a good thing.

It was in relation to the fact that `gif` files can easily be very large
compared to other graphics formats. It's nice that Tinder and Facebook chat
messengers have their silly applets which allows people to share `gifs` in a
native format, but it's very common to come across some in a web browser that
aren't optimized, even though
it's
[easy to do with free software](http://adaptivesamples.com/2015/08/06/making-an-optimized-gif-in-gimp/).
Alas, not all good things are ubiquitous, and not all ubiquitous things are
good.

## Truth

In the same conversation I brought up the difference between two pairs of
contrasting words. They are listed as follows, and I hope it to be clear how
they're not exactly how I believe one likes them to be.

- true and false

> > __true__ /tro͞o/ _adjective_

> > > In accordance with fact or reality.

> > __false__ /fôls/ _adjective_

> > > Not according with truth or fact; incorrect.

<br>

- truth and falsehood

> > __truth__ /tro͞oTH/ _noun_

> > > The quality or state of being true.

> > __false·hood__ /ˈfôlsˌho͝od/ _noun_

> > > The state of being untrue.

<br>

Again she made fun of me for having such a problem with the words. The first
pair, true and false, are adjectives. I said that it's convenient when something
isn't true, because then it must be that it's false. However, before I could
fully explain how it is that something is strange when it isn't the truth, she
cut me off and said it's not strange, it's just false. Which perhaps verifies
the point that I was trying make; that it doesn't really make sense to call
something a falsehood when that something isn't the truth of the matter, but the
question surrounding that
idea
[isn't so easy](https://mitpress.mit.edu/sites/default/files/titles/content/9780262621458_sch_0001.pdf) to
explain in a simply blog post.

The things which we're acquainted with couldn't possibly be false. If that was
true, then there would be no certain way to know anything about the world. If we
believe that humans have morals and we see people acting in accordance with that
moral way, then it makes sense to say that humans act morally appropriately.
Some might argue morals are only a set of beliefs. But if we make the assertion
that the proclamations of morals are falsehoods, then it doesn't do us any good
because humans still act seemingly appropriately; we just can't make any
reference as to _why_ they act in that manner, which doesn't do anybody any
good.

## An Idiom

> __id·i·om__ /ˈidēəm/ _noun_

> > A group of words established by usage as having a meaning not deducible from
> those of the individual words.

> > (programming) A programming construct or phraseology generally held to be
> the most efficient or elegant means to achieve a particular result or
> behavior.

> "Tail between his legs," "rose colored-glasses"
