---
layout: post
title: "I want to do"
---

I've lived my life for a decently long while now. Twenty two years. I remember
growing up hearing the question "what do you want to be when you grow up?" but
never actually having the opportunity to answer it except on one occasion in
elementary school. The moment sticks out to me because I remember the teacher
telling me that I answered the question wrong. _Veteran_ had found itself
written on the line somehow. When the teacher came around she asked first if I
had meant to write _veterinarian_, and I agreed with her when she explained the
difference.

It's an odd memory I have because I don't think I had any reason for having
either aspiration. At that point in my life the only household animals we had
were fish, and I never once remembering feeding them. The mistake must have been
legitimate, because there shouldn't have been any reason for me to even know
what the hell the word veteran meant at the time either (this must have been in
kindergarten). I'm not sure why I answered the question the way that I did.

It must not have been until high school that I actually thought to myself that I
wanted to have the title _programmer_. Now, however, I'm not really sure why I
find myself attached to it. Maybe it's the association with technology, or the
stories of heroism or political activism pertaining to programmers that I've
heard which inspire me. I don't really want to do the things programmers do.
Rather the things I want to do require an acquaintance with knowledge in the
universe of programming. The computer is my natural friend, I have found.
Whenever I have something to accomplish, the tool of the trade is that which
puts me behind a keyboard.

In reality, programming is unappealing. (A programmer wouldn't say that, but
maybe that's the reason why I want to give myself the title of programmer.) .
